{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww36940\viewh19880\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Install the `gfortran-8.2-Mojave.dmg`.\
\
Go to the path where you extracted \'91at\'92 folder. (In Mac you don\'92t need windows binary, you need to compile using gfotran compiler.)\
Note: I know gfortran is now part of gcc but newest `at` version still only works with older gfotran compilers. If you have Catalina as well, don\'92t worry this will still work on Mojave as well as on Catalina. I had tested it.\
\
Once you installed. Close all the terminals. \
\
Open new terminal. Do as follows :\
\
In your terminal, type this : echo $PATH\
Above command give you current path in your zsh file, If you have one.\
\
Add bellhop to your zsh file. You can use these commands in terminal:\
\
> cd\
> nano .zsh\
\
Copy and paste below list (change the path )\
\

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 export PATH=your_local_macOS_path/at:your_local_macOS_path/at/Bellhop:$PATH$\
\
For me, it was : \
\
export PATH=/Users/jaypatel/Downloads/at:/Users/jaypatel/Downloads/at/Bellhop:$PATH$\
\
And now source ~/.zsh to your terminal using this command : \
> source ~/.zsh\
\
# Install Jupiter notebook\
Execute following commands in your terminal :\
> sudo -H python3 -m pip install jupyter\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
# Install `ARLPY`\
Execute following commands in your terminal :\
> sudo -H python3 -m pip install arlpy\
\
Once finish, go to your terminal and cd into your folder where you put bellhop.ipynb and open Jupiter notebook using following command :\
> jupyter notebook\
\
This will launch your default browser and you can just click on the bellhop.pynb and open that. Start running your code.\
\
# Troubleshoot:\
1. If you have running into a problems that said permission denied, check the folder properties to make sure the user logged in has sufficient right to execute any exe files.\
\
2. To check you have correctly set your PATH for acoustic toolbox, please type this in your command prompt\
    \
> which bellhop.exe\
   \
It will show you path of your bellhop.exe, same like this,\
\
jaypatel@Jays-iMac samplenotebook % which bellhop.exe\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
/Users/jaypatel/Downloads/at/Bellhop/bellhop.exe\
jaypatel@Jays-iMac samplenotebook % }